## Overview ##

**ifmap.js** is an IF-MAP client library implementation in JavaScript. It should
run in any reasonably modern web browser or other JavaScript interpreter. For a
description of IF-MAP see the specification and other documentation at
[ifmapdev.com/documentation](http://ifmapdev.com/documentation). Due to the
same-origin policy within the browser, IF-MAP clients built with **ifmap.js**
must send all requests through a proxy, sold separately. For a fully-functioning
example see [jsmap](http://github.com/andrewmbenton/jsmap).

Enough talk. Here's an...

### Example ###

    // Create a client and establish a session with a MAP server
    var client = new IfmapClient('https://itsa:secret@ifmap.example.com:8686/ifmap');
    client.newSession();
    
    console.log(client.request); // Check out the IF-MAP request we just sent
    
    // Create some identifiers
    var me = new IfmapIdentifier('identity', {'type': 'username', 'name': 'amb'});
    var mySession = new IfmapIdentifier('access-request', {'name': '103:aw8h13nadwnpefgasd'});
    
    // And some metadata
    var authenticatedAs = new IfmapMetadata('authenticated-as');
    
    // And publish it
    client.publishUpdate([me, mySession], authenticatedAs, function(data, status, xhr) { console.log(data['soap']) });

### Dependencies ###

**ifmap.js** relies on [jQuery](http://jquery.com). Specifically, jQuery.post()
and jQuery.each() are used heavily.

### Known Issues ###

-  Pulling out session-id and publisher-id elements from a newSession response
   won't work unless the elements are namespaced with the 'ifmap' prefix.
-  IfmapMetadata needs work to support all standard IF-MAP metadata types.
-  Support for custom metadata isn't included.
-  Support for subscriptions is nonexistent. Maybe soon...

## IfmapClient ##

The IfmapClient constructor takes two arguments, proxyURI and mapURI. The constructor
sets up an IF-MAP client and points it at **mapURI**, presumably the SOAP endpoint
of some MAP server. The client works through a proxy, sold separately. The
proxy needs to listen at **proxyURI** for POST requests with parameters 'url' and
'soap', which it should use to send a SOAP request to 'url' with 'soap' as the
body.

Each IF-MAP request (except attach-session and subscribe) has a corresponding
function on IfmapClient. For all the following functions, the callback argument
is passed directly to jQuery.post() as the success argument. See the
[jQuery.post() documentation](http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.post/) for more.

-  IfmapClient.newSession(callback)
   
   Establish a new session with the MAP server.

-  IfmapClient.publishUpdate(identifiers, metadata, callback)
   -  **identifiers**: an array of one or two IfmapIdentifier objects.
   -  **metadata**: an IfmapMetadata object.
   
   Publish metadata on an identifier or a link.

-  IfmapClient.publishDelete(identifiers, filter, callback)
   -  **identifiers**: an array of one or two IfmapIdentifier objects.
   -  **filter**: a filter string (see the
      [IF-MAP spec](http://ifmapdev.com/documentation) for formatting details).
   
   Delete metadata from an identifier or a link.

-  IfmapClient.search(identifier, params, callback)
   -  **identifier**: an IfmapIdentifier object.
   -  **params**: an object containing name/value pairs for IF-MAP search params
      such as match-links and max-depth.
   
   Search for metadata starting at an identifier.

-  IfmapClient.purgePublisher(callback)

   Purge all metadata published by this client.

## IfmapIdentifier, IfmapMetadata ##

An IfmapIdentifier object is pretty simple. Once constructed, it's not really
meant to be changed. The constructor takes two arguments, **type** and **params**.

IfmapIdentifier(type, params)
-  **type**: An IF-MAP identifier type, as a string (e.g. 'ip-address').
-  **params**: An object containing attribute/value pairs for this identifier
   (e.g. {'type': 'IPv4', 'value': '172.16.1.250'}).

An IfmapMetadata object is even simpler (for now). It's constructor only takes
a **type** argument (since only simple metadata types are supported).

IfmapMetadata(type)
-  **type**: A simple IF-MAP metadata type, as a string (e.g. 'access-request-ip').

Both objects provide one useful function, toXML(), which serializes the object
as a string of XML.
